this is not the life that i wanted right
i took all the right steps and i ended
up in the wrong place
i've wasted six years towards working uh
working towards a degree i hate
chemistry i'm also terrified of dropping
out
so hi some background info i used to be
a straight a student in high school
but didn't have any interest to pursue
in university so i applied to chemistry
because it was my highest grade
i have spent six long years in
university for a program i have zero
interest in and quite frankly despised
being in during these six years i've
taken many different subjects for my
electives in hopes of finding something
i'm passionate about math biology
kinesiology psychology philosophy
none of them really clicked for me but
now i'm considering a full switch into
computer science which would require me
to switch schools since my gpa is low
uh-oh
my problem is i'm incredibly ashamed of
how much time i've sunk oh look
it's almost like this is a test case
chat my problem is i'm incredibly
ashamed of how much i've sunk into this
degree that's made me extremely
miserable my peers are all graduated
there's the comparison some have jobs
some are starting a family some about to
compete their master's programs
meanwhile i feel anxious and depressed
being where they were six years ago
it feels so difficult to leave
leave it since it's really all i've had
in the past six years
i don't know if i'm capable of going
into a new degree and starting fresh at
the age of 24
but i also know i'll hate my life if i
stay
i'm also afraid of how my parents may
react when i tell them i've wasted so
much money in tuition rent etc my
parents worked extremely hard and i'm i
feel extremely grateful that they helped
me pay for my college funds
i feel this pressure to succeed and
provide for them like they did for me
but at the same time i've come to a
point where my mental health is
crumbling and i'm not sure how much more
of this i can take
my parents don't know i'm struggling
with these thoughts but even sharing
problems with them would make me feel
like a failure or disappointment
i don't really know what it is i think
i'll gain from posting this maybe i just
wanted to vent and hear other people's
thoughts
ps never been to therapy thought of
going to one provided by the school but
i've heard they treat students with
rude and with little respect
okay
so uh you know
let's talk about this all right so this
is the case of what seems like a 24 year
old who has been in college for
six years studying chemistry
feels obligated
to
stay and finish their degree really
hates their degree is burnt out
you know has some of the gifted syndrome
kind of stuff going on right so a's in
a's early on crappy gpa in college
a shame gap
that is based on what they're expecting
of themselves and what they're capable
of has a lot of comparison so what's
going on in this person and why
are more and more people at the age of
22 or 24 struggling to finish college
and like not sure what to do they feel
like trapped between continuing this
thing that they've already invested so
much in
versus kind of giving up and then like
if you give up like that's the last nail
in the coffin then you've really given
up and then like
you haven't really
wasted those six years right until you
give up
so this is the tricky thing about this
situation let's just talk about that for
a second
if you finish
the last six of your years of your life
haven't been a waste
right it just took a better late than
never it's not like you wasted six years
because at least they're counting
towards something took you a couple
other years but at least you didn't
waste it
whereas giving up which is what you want
to do more than anything else
means that you've wasted those six years
so now we really understand why this
person is stuck
because every day they continue they
haven't given up and if they haven't
given up they haven't wasted six years
of their life so they propagate they
stay in this dead
career path this dead major
for the sake of not wasting six years of
their life and in doing so they've
wasted six years of their life right
because now if you're giving up this
person probably had those thoughts like
even before they picked the major
but they sort of kept like plowing
forward like because
out of avoidance of giving up and
wasting all of that time because it's
all wasted if i give up
and so this is the biggest problem right
so this is how
kids nowadays i'm i guess this person
isn't a kid end up in what i call an
early life crisis
so a lot of times people talk about
mid-life crises right and traditionally
people will usually talk about men and
what will happen is like dudes will get
their hair colored like sometimes
they'll go through a divorce they'll
have an affair or even if they don't
have an affair go through divorce
they'll buy like some really expensive
car
that you know has a retractable roof
and they'll drive around and there's
like the mid-life crisis right
so what we're seeing time and time again
is what i would call the early life
crisis and there's like a generation of
people having an early life crisis and
this is a classic example of this like i
picked a major for all the wrong reasons
or i picked a career because i thought
it would be safe or good or whatever i'm
just deeply deeply unhappy in it i'm
burnt out i can't continue but i can't
stop
because if i stop it'll be a waste
and they're stuck so this is the early
life crisis so why is this happening
more than it used to
so what used to happen within a midlife
crisis is you got a lot of reassurance
that hey this is what you need to do
this week it'll get better at the end
it'll get better at the end it'll get
better at the end
and so you're kind of like blind right
like you're just kind of like you're
vote your fo your vision is like focused
and forward you kind of just chugging
along it'll get better i'll be happy one
day like once i'm done with school i'll
get a job then i'll be happy once you
get the job once i get promoted i'll be
happy because we're just told by
everyone that you'll be happy in the
future you'll be happy in the future
you'll be happy in the future
and then you you try that for a while 10
years 12 years 15 years and then you
kind of hit this mid-life crisis where
you're like this is not the life that i
wanted right i took all the right steps
and i ended up in the wrong place and
then you have this mid-life crisis i'm
40 years old like how can i start over
how do i find joy what happens sometimes
you get divorced sometimes you start
dating a 25 year old like you know there
are all kinds of things that that
mark the midlife crisis
so nowadays what we have is the early
life crisis and why is that
i think it's because there's an
increased awareness
that didn't used to be there so if we
look at the big difference between like
40 years ago and today
there's a dissemination of awareness i
mean dissemination of information and
increased awareness of like where things
are heading because people are
communicating more now right so this
person is posting this thing because
they've seen other people post similar
thoughts so there's almost like a
permission to explore these feelings to
have these feelings
we're all kind of more cosmically aware
that like if we put our heads down and
plow forward we're not guaranteed
success
that's the promise we were given like 30
40 years ago that's the promise of my
generation the millennial generation
promise we were given is that if you put
your head down and you work really hard
you'll be happy
turned out that that wasn't the case and
so our my generation the millennials
like we all sort of suffered for a while
right like we're trying to figure this
out and then like the generation beneath
us recognizes they're so much more
self-aware than they've ever been
they're so much more aware that like
life on autopilot is not going to bring
you happiness so people start to
question more they start to wonder more
they start to like recognize like oh i'm
burnt out like this is becoming more of
a thing
and so we have early life crises so
here's my experience as a psychiatrist
having an early life crisis is way
better than having a mid-life crisis so
in a weird way i think this is actually
healthy for our society
so when i was struggling 24 years old
had just graduated from college and
couldn't get a job
had applied to medical school got 40
rejections
you know couldn't get a job as a
research assistant like i didn't know
what i was doing with my life like i
wasn't doing anything
so i had to do a lot of hard soul
searching and thankfully i did that soul
searching when i was like 24
and then like figured things out by the
time i was 28
and then it was fine because i had sort
of figured everything out and i don't
think i'm headed towards a midlife
crisis
right so i'm almost 40 now but you know
i'm not ex
generally speaking things are going
pretty good so i don't think i'm gonna
wake up in three years and be like
i made a mistake where did my life go
i'm pretty happy with how things have
gone and i do think that i would have
been very unhappy if i hadn't gone
through that process
so this is the thing if you all are in
an early life crisis i think there are a
couple of really important things to
recognize the first is to recognize that
what you're going through is actually
quite common and it's actually really
important that the early life crisis is
a voice within you that's actually
trying to guide you you're not wasting
your life by giving up on chemistry
you're starting to live your life
there are a couple of things that are
really important to recognize here one
is that this person
you know we tend to only value things
that move towards our final goal
so for me for example like i'm not
really much of a clinician now right i
do maybe i see five to ten hours of
patients per week
and and like but it took me years and
years of seeing patients to realize
that
like
it's not actually my favorite thing in
the world
and so sometimes i think what we
underestimate is like the value of
education so what i mean by education is
not what you learn in school but like
spending six years of your life to like
discover what you truly love or look for
what you truly love and realize that oh
i'm not going to like changing majors is
not the solution to finding what i truly
love
that's a very very important discovery
because what it means is that no major
will satisfy you so you shouldn't pick
your major based on satisfaction you
need to start looking for satisfaction
in other ways maybe cs will be in the
right direction
this is the other thing is because we
expect
our majors or our careers or our classes
to fulfill us
whereas learning that
your major is not going to give you
fulfillment is actually a very very
important lesson why is that because
that changes your expectations
okay i'm not going to find my passion in
college so i might as well pick
something i know it's going to suck
i'm not expecting it to be anything
better than that you let go of your
expectations you'll start enjoying it
so it's it's the price of education it's
the price of learning and you have a
mid-life crisis you have an early life
crisis
so i think the best thing to do if
you're in an early life crisis is kind
of listen to yourself recognize also
that you haven't necessarily wasted time
you just spent time learning what you
didn't like
right so finding your favorite food
is not about just eating your favorite
food right it's about trying lots of
different things until you find
something that you like
finding the right person assuming that
you're into monogamy and all that good
stuff like you want to get married right
so it's sort of a different it's a value
system that i'm assuming there
like finding the right person to marry
involves looking through a lot of wrong
people right that's just how it works
and so something about the way that we
judge ourselves when it comes to life is
that the only thing that the benchmark
that we set ourselves up against is
perfection
4.0 in high school 4.0 in college off to
start your own company or go to law
school or get an mba and then i'm going
to go vp of this at this place then i'm
going to do this and then i'm going to
get stock options and i'm going to go
here and i'm gonna start my own company
and i'm gonna be i'm gonna retire at 45
right we expect nothing but perfection
from ourselves there's no time in our in
our
plan for life for detours or like
learning things or figuring things out
like we just expect ourselves to just
think about how absurd this is we expect
18 year old kids who have never been in
college and have no idea what they want
to do with their life to pick a major
that sort of commits them to a career
path like what the hell
how on earth are you supposed to commit
you get an 18 year old to commit to a
career path
they've never done anything
but this is the way that society exists
they ask you to make commitments and
then you get into the sunk cost fallacy
right where it's like throwing good
money after bad well i did chemistry
because it's the best score that i had
so i might as well do something i'm good
at
and then you spend you
are doing chemistry for one year and
you're like well
it's not like i like anything else so
let me continue chemistry you do
chemistry for two years well i'm not
really liking this so much let me try
kinesiology let me try physiology it's
not like i like any of those things i
guess i'll stick with chemistry year
four
i don't actually like chemistry so i'm
going to drop half these classes i i
can't motivate myself year five years
six
it's like what else am i going to do i
don't know so i might as well just keep
doing this
so it's it's terrifying
like the situations that we put people
in
and so now what's happening is there's a
raised awareness of this people are
realizing like oh other people are
unhappy too it's actually okay to be
unhappy so then they post things like
this and then you have an early life
crisis what do i want to do with my life
that's what our entire audience is it's
like a group of people having an early
life crisis
and like because
you know we have more than five viewers
it seems like it's a societal problem
which is totally okay so i had an early
life crisis i thought it was fantastic i
think the best thing that ever happened
to me
i would be so miserable if i got into
medical school right away because then i
would have like become a cardiologist or
surgeon or something like that because
it was all about ego
i i would have been embarrassed to
become a psychiatrist even though it's
what i love
i'd have been like that's not a real
doctor like people aren't gonna like be
like oh
psychiatrist is not a real doctor
you know like all that stupid ego stuff
would have dictated my life
and i would have been miserable
but i've been rich and miserable
instead
i'm streaming on twitch and wearing a
hoodie and this is my work for the day
right
and so i know it's it's terrifying but
like
take the time that you need to figure
out the things that you need to figure
out very practically if you have to have
conversations with your parents you have
conversations with your parents
and like what you tell your parents is
look
i've tried my level best to make this
work i'm just incredibly unhappy
and
you know i don't really think that
like
this is gonna work for me
it's gonna be tough
you know
and like i'm trying to figure out how to
honor your sacrifice
i'm trying to figure out how to do
something that i can repay everything
that you've done for me with
but i just don't think it's chemistry
and i need some time to try to figure
that out and i like to like explore what
to do with my life i tried living on
autopilot for far too long and it's just
not working
and this is the key thing that you
really have to understand
so for all these people who are in early
life crisis here's the key thing to
remember
it's
it's the avoidance of the conflict
that keeps you paralyzed and stuck on
autopilot right so in this person it's
like coming to terms with like dropping
out of college
kept you major in in chemistry
coming to terms with
disappointing your parents is too hard
so you're not going to say anything to
them because even telling them you're
going to feel like a failure so it's the
avoidance of that conflict which keeps
you in autopilot because you're like
sticking your head in this end you're
like this is not working anymore but i
can't change it i can't disappoint
people i can't quit i can't do any of
those things even though every fiber of
my being is telling me to do those
things and so internally you're tortured
you're stuck you're being pulled in two
different directions you're being torn
apart because you want to avoid the
negative consequence you want to avoid
the conflict you're scared of what your
parents will say or think so instead of
actually fixing the problem all you do
is pretend that everything is okay so
your parents
don't realize we can't let them know
that you're not really enjoying yourself
they may put two and two together
because first of all they're your
parents and secondly you've been in
undergrad for six years so maybe they
may know something is up but let's not
worry about that right now
right it's recognizing that internally
you're not willing to like grieve or
give up or mourn the price of what
you've done so you say stay stuck and
then year seven goes by year eight goes
by year nine goes by and if you do that
for a while then you end up with a
midlife crisis
that's what all the people with midlife
crises were doing
they would just keep plowing forward to
avoid conflict and don't accept what's
actually wrong in your life don't try to
do anything about it
just pretend everything is okay
it's like the band continuing to play
when the titanic is sinking
just pretend the problem doesn't exist
i'm not listening
[Music]
right so it's really challenging to
confront your fears
so now we're going to give you a nyani
yoga practice for that
you guys may think that oh path of
knowledge that's great i don't actually
have to sit down and meditate like i can
just think my way to enlightenment
absolutely my friend the path of
knowledge is for you
so you guys ready for your path of
knowledge
practice for
if you have an early life crisis and
you're avoiding conflict and don't want
to admit to yourself that your life is
empty and on autopilot
here it is
the next time you go out to eat
when a waiter asks you
how is your food
complain that is the practice
say hey if there's anything wrong with
your food don't just like complain just
because there's anything you don't like
about your food it needs a little bit
more salt needs a little bit more sauce
has too much sauce just complain just be
like you know
it's not the best to be honest
if you don't think if you'd give it like
a seven out of ten tell them you know
i'd give it a seven out of ten i think i
need to do this this than this
do it politely don't be an [ __ ]
you know don't be a karen
just be honest
just tell them
honestly i'm a little bit disappointed
it's kind of undercooked in the middle
tell them
right be respectful be kind be
compassionate but be honest
and then that's where it's kind of like
yeah don't lie i'm not telling you guys
to lie i'm just saying if there's some
problem with your food just tell your
waiter
or waitress
right no it's not being a douchebag so
if you're disrespectful about it that's
being a douchebag if you blame the
waiter and be like
throw a temper tantrum
if you like no you if they ask you how's
your food just answer the question that
they asked you
right that's all i'm saying you should
do and if you like it then you can say
that too
just tell them honestly what you think
about the food
and now notice within yourself what
happens
when you start to do that
because what is this a practice of why
is this
why is this a meditation practice is dr
k just trying to make you feel
uncomfortable well yeah that's a little
bit of that
but what it really is is recognizing
when i feel something on the inside
and i hold it in for the sake of
disrupting other people's ruffling other
people's feathers that's how you get
into an early life crisis like this
because you're so conflict-avoided that
you can't even own something as simple
as my sandwich has too much tomato
you know like that's all
and so practice this is what nyani yogg
is what happens within you and then pay
attention what makes it hard to do what
makes it easy to do how is it received
by other people
can you vocalize what you truly feel
internally even if it sets someone up to
feel a little bit bad because here's the
really cool thing so if you guys are
afraid of making people feel bad you
know if you get something and it's not
what you if you really want to be nasty
about it if you want to be like
slytherin style then you can like when
they order something and then tell them
you ordered something else and like
that's lying though but you know i don't
think you should do something like that
but and because here's the cool thing is
like oftentimes chefs and waiters will
like want to fix it for you right
and so you let them fix it for you then
you can give them honest feedback you'd
be like hey this is so much better i
really appreciate it oh yeah just like
that side of sauce really fix things
can i get some ketchup oh the ketchup
actually fixes it thank you so much
right you can you can do you can be a
good person i'm not saying don't be a
good person you have to be an evil
person but be honest
this is
to be honest with the people around you
be authentic with yourself and do so in
a compassionate way and if you are so
it's so hard for you to do that because
then that's why we pick it right nyan
yoga is like
there's no you can't it's not as easy as
just sitting there and breathing so nyan
yoga is actually regarded as the hardest
path to enlightenment
and so there are a bunch of people out
there like you thinking oh i have such
high iq i can do path of knowledge easy
peasy no
it's the path of contemplation it's not
the path of information
not yan yoga is not gained just by
reading books it's gained by the
application of what you read into
like experiments on the self
so give it a shot there's your on your
practice okay
you